The ocean is a magical place that is full of beautiful creatures. There are sharks that swim in the ocean and eat small fish. Sharks can be scary. Dolphins are mammals that swim in the ocean, but breathe air instead of using their gills to breathe water. Coral is a creature that stays still under the water. Coral does not move very much. There are many different species of sharks which swim underneath the waves. If you want to swim in the ocean, you must be careful of sharks. Sharks can take a bite of you if you are not careful while you swim. If you use a submarine, you can dive underneath the surface of the ocean and see many creatures. A submarine swims at deep levels of the ocean. 

Marine life, or sea life or ocean life, is the plants, animals and other organisms that live in the salt water of the sea or ocean, or the brackish water of coastal estuaries. At a fundamental level, marine life affects the nature of the planet. Marine organisms produce oxygen. Shorelines are in part shaped and protected by marine life, and some marine organisms even help create new land.

Most life forms evolved initially in marine habitats. By volume, oceans provide about percent of the living space on the planet. The earliest vertebrates appeared in the form of fish, which live exclusively in water. Some of these evolved into amphibians which spend portions of their lives in water and portions on land. Other fish evolved into land mammals and subsequently returned to the ocean as seals, dolphins or whales. Plant forms such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton, and particularly phytoplankton, are key primary producers forming the general foundation of the ocean food chain.

Marine invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes see insect and mollusk siphons and gills. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air.

